---
layout: post
title: "Using Proscene Library"
date: 2016-02-12 15:32:00
categories: jruby_art update
keywords: library, proscene, Processing::Proxy, JRubyArt
---

Here is an example sketch by Jean Pierre Charalambos, that has been refactored for [JRubyArt][jruby_art]. Install the proscene library from the processing-3.0.1 ide.

### basic_use.rb ###

{% highlight ruby %}
# Basic Use.
# by Jean Pierre Charalambos.
#
# This example illustrates a direct approach to use proscene by Scene proper
# instantiation.
#
# Press 'h' to display the key shortcuts and mouse bindings in the console.

load_library :proscene
include_package 'remixlab.proscene'
attr_reader :scene

def settings
  size(640, 360, P3D)
end

def setup
  sketch_title 'Basic Use'
  # We instantiate the Scene class
  @scene = Scene.new(self)
  # when damping friction = 0 -> spin
  scene.eye_frame.set_damping(0)
  # puts format('spinning sens: %.3f', scene.eye_frame.spinningSensitivity)
end

def draw
  background(0)
  fill(204, 102, 0, 150)
  scene.draw_torus_solenoid
end

def key_pressed
  damping = scene.eye_frame.damping.zero? ? 0.5 : 0
  scene.eye_frame.set_damping(damping)
  puts format('Camera damping friction now is %.1f', damping)
end
{% endhighlight %}

Here is the alternative use example using inheritance

### alternative_use.rb ###

{% highlight ruby %}
# Alternative Use.
# by Jean Pierre Charalambos.
#
# This example illustrates how to use proscene through inheritance.
#
# Press 'h' to display the key shortcuts and mouse bindings in the console.

load_library :proscene
include_package 'remixlab.proscene'
attr_reader :scene

def settings
  size(640, 360, P3D)
end

def setup
  sketch_title 'Alternative Use'
  # We instantiate our MyScene class defined below
  @scene = MyScene.new(self)
  # scene.init
end

# Make sure to define the draw method, even if it's empty.
def draw
end

class MyScene < Scene
  # We need to call super to instantiate the base class
  def initialize(p)
    super 
  end

  # Initialization stuff could have also been performed at
  # setup, once after the Scene object have been instantiated
  def init
    set_grid_visual_hint(false)
  end

  #Define here what is actually going to be drawn.
  def proscenium
    background(0)
    fill(204, 102, 0, 150)
    draw_torus_solenoid
  end
end
{% endhighlight %}

[jruby_art]:https://ruby-processing.github.io/index.html
